so this person is describing a situation
in which they are continuously
losing battles
and i am basically making the suggestion
or hypothesis that you may be losing
battles but over time you will win the
war
so our first post today is more
empathetic and selfless people always
get screwed rant
how do you deal with the fact that
selfish narcissistic people always end
up on top how do you deal with conflicts
with people like this i know this is a
fact of life but it frustrates me that
the people who are empathetic who
genuinely try to understand others and
resolve conflicts and consider others
well-being in perspective get screwed
over every single time
because whoever is more selfless will
fold first in every argument will make
sacrifices in exchange for nothing
while whoever is more self-centered and
less considerate will take and take
everything they can get with no remorse
because they care less about you than
their capacity to hold a grudge and be a
dick in general is so much higher
when they feel attacked even by the
polite suggestion not even an accusation
they go into fight mode and will do
everything to defend themselves and
attack you with no chance of empathy
until they win the argument they will
never admit they're wrong or apologize
if you get into an argument with them
based on my experience your two choices
are to try to get them to have a
rational conversation from a place of
compassion pretty much a laughable idea
has never worked or to out attack them
in an argument also never works because
i'm unable to and they're probably
unconsciously used to
getting their way no matter how long you
keep pushing forward they will never
listen and just hate you even more
they can make you feel like absolute
crap even when you're in the right but
nothing you say will ever make them feel
bad for hurting you because it doesn't
even register to them
even when you finally stop letting them
walk all over you and set boundaries
they will see you as the villain so
you're literally no matter what
you do you're guaranteed to feel awful
while they get off scot-free i believe
that more empathetic people who try to
have logical and rational conversations
are objectively better people but boy do
i wish sometimes i could be on the other
side of things and be able to just
attack someone remorselessly in in
arguments my ability to hold a grudge or
to be angry at someone even who did
something truly awful to me is so low
that i just get exhausted after like one
day max and try to apologize because i
can't handle the arguing
i want nothing more than to get these
people to try to see my perspective for
a couple of seconds and have a rational
conversation from a place of compassion
but it's just never going to happen with
this type of person to be honest i don't
think i've ever won an argument with
anyone
edit yes i know this post is somewhat
irrational and written in an angry
spiteful tone i did not expect this many
people to read it but i also i also know
i'm partly to blame in that that just
don't
interact as the best advice
i'd do that if i could but the situation
i was thinking of while writing
this is one
is one this person forced me into and i
cannot leave or avoid them i was
frustrated because i feel powerless they
escalated things more than just a petty
work dispute and i have no choice but to
engage and lose
damn
okay
so
first thing to point out yeah so this
person is like you know did a good job
of recognizing this is a little bit of a
rant they did a good job of recognizing
that it's like written in the spiteful
and angry tone like that's actually
totally fine right so i think it's
totally fine to be spiteful and angry
um and as long as you kind of recognize
it right you're allowed to rant on our
subreddit about whatever you want to and
and thankfully i think people here were
really really nice and and offered a lot
of good suggestions
um so let's kind of start with this
person's basic premise which is how do
you deal with the fact that selfish
narcissistic people always end up on top
so let's start with actually the
question do selfish narcissistic people
always end up on top there's actually
been research about this i wasn't able
to find a really good reference in a in
a short time span but
there is actually a lot of research that
goes into whether empathy is actually
like a vulnerability and there's there
have been studies that show that
empathic people are like more likely to
be taken advantage of and that it
actually can like screw you over like
being empathic is not a straight up
advantage it can actually be a
vulnerability that can lead to a greater
amount of suffering and essentially like
losing more often
so if you look at society we have a
spectrum of you know at one end of the
spectrum we have people who are
sociopaths so completely incapable of
empathy
and on the other end of the spectrum we
have people who are very very empathic
and oftentimes get taken advantage of
and so is this person's premise that the
empathic people always lose
is that premise correct
well i wouldn't say that they always
lose and we'll kind of get to that in a
second but i do think there's actually
decent evidence that
empathy can be seen as a vulnerability
and people who are more empathic than
others
sometimes get the short end of the stick
and
will get taken advantage of
so like i think there's actually like a
solid kernel of truth in this person's
basic grief
which is that it sucks to be empathic
and the narcissists always win
so that being said
um i don't really know that
it's been my experience that generally
speaking being empathic is a net
positive so the truth is that you
probably want to be somewhere in the
middle or be able to turn on or off
empathy
um
you know kind of you should be in
control of your empathy and like like
when to be empathic and when not to be
empathic
so i think that one of the the trickiest
things that empaths deal with or people
who are high on the empathy scale deal
with is how to effectively set
boundaries so there's a tension between
compassion and setting a boundary
and so this is also where like you know
there's a there's an increasing interest
in the domain of eq which is emotional
quotient which we'll also be talking
about in a couple of the other posts so
there's a there's evidence that shows
that like being more emotionally
intelligent which generally speaking
narcissists are not very good at
can actually lead to a lot of like
positive things so the ability to
understand people the ability to you
know understand your own emotions
recognize what you're feeling so even
this person sort of indicates the fact
that like they kind of say in the title
i know this is a rant i know i'm being
irrational
even that degree of understanding of
your own perspective actually over time
will correlate with like better outcomes
in life because you know what you're
feeling
right so let's let's take this on the
flip side of your your call work
colleague apparently who's very
narcissistic does not take feedback well
and basically proves you wrong anytime
you try to make a suggestion
so if this person is not willing to
accept suggestions to improve then
chances are they will be far far less
effective over time than you will right
so like if the person is not willing to
learn from their mistakes because they
have a narcissistic defense mechanism
they're just not going to get better at
the rate that people who are willing to
accept feedback from other people are
going to get better so they're going to
stay stagnant they may have a couple of
different moves on their pokemon which
are really strong but their pokemon will
never evolve
on the on the flip side you know you may
not have the best moves for an
individual engagement but as you
continue to
like take feedback from people become
self-aware over time you will actually
win that game
um so this is kind of the other thing to
kind of point out which is that you're
talking about winning and losing which i
think there's a hefty amount of your own
ego in there so we'll get to that in a
second
but what is this person like what is the
cost of victory like what are the spoils
of victory and what is the cost of
victory you may feel like this person is
winning all the time because they're not
willing to accept your feedback they
attack you there may be a work situation
in which they're making you look bad all
that stuff could be true but i think
that over time this situation that
you're describing is gonna benefit you
more than that it may not be the
situation the the person is gonna you
know i would rather take your
stats than their stats
and so you know i know it sounds kind of
weird but like if you just look at over
time you know the way that you evolve in
this situation the way that they evolve
like your ability to accept feedback
your ability to over time make the right
moves will probably end up with you in a
better place than than they are
so the next thing that we're going to
talk a little bit about is
um
you know like this sort of idea that
let me just think about how to say this
so this person is describing the
situation in which they are continuously
losing battles
and i am basically making the suggestion
or hypothesis that you may be losing
battles but over time you will win the
war and why is that it's because in my
experience working with narcissistic
people and i have a lot of experience
working with narcissistic people
even though they may win a particular
encounter they're not happy about it
they're certainly not carefree because
remember that like they're perceiving
any kind of polite suggestion as a
personal attack so your desires to help
them are actually like incredibly
hurtful to them and they're going
through life with a lot of internal pain
uh so i i don't really i know that you
have this perception that like
narcissists are like carefree but like
if they were carefree they would be able
to receive like feedback without going
into attack mode
right the fact that they're so
vulnerable to your attacks which are
polite suggestions that get turned into
attacks and then they go into defensive
mode and attack you actually speaks to a
very very deep insecurity which they're
trying to struggle with all the time
and instead of actually accepting the
suggestions that you're making to help
them you know do better and then be
secure because they're actually doing a
better job because they're taking your
suggestions to heart
what they end up doing is like defending
against your attack not taking it
continuing to underperform below like
what they could be able to
at the level at which they should be
able to perform if they accepted
feedback and that then reinforces their
insecurity and makes them like more like
prickly when it comes to suggestions so
it's absolutely a self-defeating cycle
from their perspective as well
i don't know how much consolation that
is to you because it seems like you know
your life kind of sucks in this
situation which i totally get
so the other thing that i i kind of want
to point out is like there may be plays
for you to make here
so the first is that a lot of people
will say that you know if you're dealing
with a narcissist the best solution is
to just leave and i think that actually
is a very good solution and there are
ways that you can even do that in a
workplace environment that can be like
really really
healthy and positive for you so i'm
gonna make a couple of assumptions here
the first is that i'm going to assume
that you can't escape this person
the second assumption i'm going to make
is that this person actually
attacks you or does not accept criticism
in a public way that is visible to other
people that you work with
therefore you have the perception that
this person appears more competent than
you are okay so let's just assume that
they're fighting public battles that
make you look bad and make them look
competent because you can't outmaneuver
them in an argument
so there's actually some interesting uh
there's some interesting suggestions
here as well so this is the kind of
situation where
if this person is doing this with you
there's a really really really good
chance they're doing it with other
people so if this person is narcissistic
it's kind of like you know they're not
just going to be narcissistic with you
they're going to be narcissistic with
everyone they're going to be competitive
with everyone and this is where we're
going to be a little bit sneaky and use
that against them so this is where you
be sneaky don't argue with them just
start having private conversations with
your fellow co-workers or even your boss
and sort of point out this person's
behavior to other people you're going to
kind of shit-talk them
you're going to go to your boss and
you're going to say hey i don't know if
you noticed what happened in the meeting
i'm a little bit curious what was your
perception of
what happened in today's meeting
and and the boss may say oh you lost an
argument
um and
absolutely talk behind their back
so but that's not what the boss is going
to say they're going to notice that oh
like this person like you know
you you'd be surprised at how
sensitive other people are to
narcissistic attacks like people are not
going to think that you're just losing
arguments right and left they're
probably going to realize that this
person is kind of like not the easiest
to work with then you're going to go to
your boss and you're going to say yeah
so you know i noticed that this person i
made this suggestion because and this is
where you need to frame things for the
benefit of the company or your job so i
noticed that this person for example
like doesn't ever shred medical
information
and i know that at this hospital we are
committed to protecting patient privacy
which is why i sort of suggested and
even tried to like point out to them
that i can get them a shredder if that's
a problem i'm happy to try to make
things convenient and easy for them but
they seem to like shut down the
suggestion and felt like very personally
attacked
i'm not sure how to protect patient
privacy when i'm working with someone
who is like so against this kind of goal
and is taking things personally
go to your boss say this to them and say
can you please help me understand like
how i should work with this person like
because i'm really struggling go to your
co-workers and you can also mention to
them
hey i'm really having difficulty working
with this person
um i'm curious have you had difficulty
do you have any suggestions and this is
really great because like over time
what's going to happen is one of two
things is going to happen it's kind of a
win-win here okay
one is that they say yeah i really have
difficulty dealing with this person too
they're a complete and then you
guys laugh about that commiserate about
that the next time that they attack you
in a meeting you're gonna make eye
contact with your colleague that you had
the conversation with and you're going
to roll your eyes which is going to piss
off the narcissistic person because
they're going to recognize that that's
something that is disrespectful and then
they will attack you further and then
you're just going to be calm and say
i'm a little bit confused is is
something wrong
and the more that you remain neutral the
more that you don't engage with them the
more you're just they're going to
implode and you're just going to be
sitting there and like when you get the
opportunity you're just going to make
eye contact with people around the room
and if you really want to go for the
you know the sucker punch you can even
in the middle of the meeting turn to
your boss and say this is exactly what
i'm talking about
i'm trying to be respectful and i
haven't even said anything in this
person like in a public meeting in front
of your boss say this is exactly what
i'm talking about i'm having difficulty
learning how to like communicate with
this person in a professional manner ask
your boss then and there do you have any
suggestions because i'd love to try to
improve this situation
publicly
in the room
call attention to it if you really want
to do that and you will completely knock
them flat on their feet
right because what does anyone say at
that point like
what does your boss say does your boss
say oh yeah this is your fault because
your narcissistic colleague is going
constantly on the attack
or your narcissistic colleague is like
yeah you should do this and you should
do this and you should do this and you
should do this
and then you kind of turn to them you
say okay thank you for the feedback um
you know i i do those things i've spoken
with you in a respectful tone i haven't
done anything to attack you
you know i don't know where this is
coming from
and like just
the narcissistic person will implode and
just let them implode it's okay like
this is the key thing you've got to
understand if you've got high eq and
someone is narcissistic and can't
control their reactions
you can bait them if you really want to
so you can do that right so like i'm not
saying that you actually do all of those
things but you should absolutely have a
conversation with your boss where you
think a little bit about you know what
your goals at this job are how this
person is making it difficult and if you
are not only is your colleague not
accepting feedback you are openly asking
for feedback you are openly going to
your boss and other people and saying
hey i'm trying to make this situation
work please help me
and the more that you kind of do that
like how can you be blamed for that
right like you can't really be blamed
for that
um and so like this is the kind of thing
where you know people think that
narcissists win in these sorts of
situations and that's simply because
we're never taught like how to play the
game against narcissists so they like
pull you into a particular dynamic that
is beneficial for them and as long as
you adopt a defeatist attitude and we're
gonna kind of go here real quick right
because i think this is a problem
i have no choice but to engage and lose
yeah so like take a page from sun tzu's
art of war like don't fight the battle
that you're gonna lose fight the battle
that you're gonna win
and so that can be
cultivating support from other
colleagues it can be talking to your
boss you're not trying to actually like
destroy this person right it's not
malice that i'm suggesting it's just
genuinely like how do you work with this
person you find the other people in the
office that you can positively work with
the people that find this person
annoying you talk to your boss so that
you're kind of signal to your boss hey
i'm trying to make this happen
it's totally fine and then the other
thing that you can start doing is is
getting into a position of leaving
um and then once you you may not be able
to leave right away but chances are
over time you will have some degree of
freedom right and this is where you may
think you're not able to leave but
really what's stopping you so i'd polish
up your resume start applying to other
places and you can also circle back with
your boss after a couple months and say
hey this like situation is really not
working well for me um i'm trying to
make things work with this person and
i'm not so sure that i want to stick
around and i know a lot of people will
say like don't let your boss know like
what you're thinking
there's a big a lot of this in the
anti-work kind of subreddit movement but
i think there are good bosses out there
and you have to figure out is your boss
a good boss or not a good boss then
circle back with your boss and just say
like hey i don't really you know i'm
trying to do a good job here but i find
it very difficult to work with this
person and so you know i'm not saying
that
you know they need to go but i just
wanted to let you know that i'm like
seriously considering moving on
and you know say just ask your boss what
do you think about that right so like
let them know and just like ask for
their opinion
and they say yeah you know if you're
really thinking about moving on like you
should move on and then cool so now you
understand right then what you do is you
let's like you tell your co-workers that
you formed somewhat of an alliance with
and you can say hey i just wanted to let
y'all know i was thinking about leaving
because i have difficulty working with
this person i talked to boss about it
they thought it may be a good idea if i
leave
if you know if you all are also
interested in leaving or have thought
about it i'd love to have a conversation
with you
and then you start looking for other
jobs because the truth of the matter is
that narcissists drive people away
and so here's the long-term victory plan
for empaths versus narcissists
in this world there are givers and
takers and this sort of situation
sort of you're screwed if you're a giver
with a taker but if two givers meet
together and they're able to form some
kind of relationship their relationship
will be superior to two takers so give
her versus take her take her wins give
her loses take her versus taker it's
kind of like even
and giver plus giver is also even but it
tends to be superior to take a plus
taker so over time what you want to do
is cultivate the right kinds of people
in your life and set boundaries and this
is where like you may think oh my god
the narcissist won because i left
and like that's all ego like your ego is
abs absolutely like active here too and
if you guys want to see this
let's pretend for a moment that this
person is narcissist
how do you deal with the fact that
selfish narcissistic people always end
up on top this is an incredibly
narcissistic question
right oh like the world is rigged
against me and even though i am a good
person the rest of the world is crap
it frustrates me that the good people
are the ones that get screwed
who genuinely try to understand and
resolve other conflicts and consider
other people's well-being get screwed
over every single time such a
narcissistic statement you guys get this
right like this is exactly what a
narcissist would post
so like this is the kind of i'm not
calling this person narcissist i don't
think they are i think this is uh i
think they're demonstrating a lot of
good insight which you would not see
from a narcissist so like this stuff
over here
they're kind of acknowledging that like
i i recognize what i'm saying is
rational narcissists don't believe that
right they believe they are rational and
it's written in an angry uh spiteful
tone
i i was frustrated because i feel
powerless this is not something a
narcissist would say
my point is that remember that
narcissism is a defense mechanism it is
a function of the ego and the ego arises
any time we get attacked right so this
is all i'm not going to go into all the
detail here but if you guys check out
the vedic psychology lecture in dr k's
guide you will see like this all of this
will be laid out if you guys have a
problem with your ego if this happens to
you
where when you feel hurt you start to
become narcissistic if you want to
understand this it's laid out really
well there so definitely check that out
but we can definitely see the
narcissistic defense even here right
so just to kind of summarize this is a
situation where over time if you are an
empathic person
you will actually uh
be
you there is truth that if you are an
empathic person you will be taken
advantage of by people who are
narcissistic
this is absolutely true
and so over time what you want to do is
just cultivate the right kinds of
relationships learn to set healthy
boundaries right and this is the kind of
thing where like i'm not suggesting you
engage with this person you don't even
try to make them understand because
they've demonstrated to you time and
time and time again that they are not
willing to listen so you should just
stop just go to everyone else
and then like over time as they as you
activate their narcissistic defense
mechanism you are just going to double
down in terms of maneuvering around them
and like the more upset they get they
may even come at you like hard they may
try to sabotage you or something like
that so be careful
but i think it's totally fine to you
know not do anything with them publicly
just go to your different colleagues and
you can decide how sadistic you want to
be and how much you want to punish them
and if you want to give in to that
hungry beast inside you that feels
wronged you can roll your eyes make
contact in a public meeting call them
out and be nothing but professional and
work towards you know the company's
goals and then they're gonna they're
gonna go insane they're gonna explode
it's totally fine you can do that if you
want to i wouldn't recommend it
um you know
i wouldn't recommend it i don't think
that that's that's accumulating some
amount of negative karma even if it's
very very satisfying so i think that
it's always better to not attack other
people even if you can demolish them
right so like that's just not
what i think you should do
so over time
you know what you want to be really
careful about is cultivating the right
kind of
uh
relationships and so this particular job
may not have a boss that is sympathetic
to you may not have co-workers that are
sympathetic to you this particular job
may have a boss who says oh they're
super productive so we're going to
tolerate their bad behavior which is why
you need to move firms right because
there are going to be places where that
kind of stuff isn't tolerated there are
going to be places where
bosses will fire the bad apple no matter
how productive they are
and so we see this a lot like i think
for example
in investment banking there's like a
heavy heavy bias
towards like it doesn't matter how you
act it just matters how well you work
and so you can be kind of an
there's a perception that's what all
investment banks are like the good news
is that's actually changing quite
rapidly and now there are a lot of
people who are starting to value
um
you know like work-life balance and like
you know positive environments and
they're attracting people and have
actually far lower turnover this is the
big thing that i was working with
someone very high up in an investment
bank and i was trying to like advocate
for them to like create a better
corporate culture and the reason why is
because their turnover is ridiculously
high like you guys can be signing deals
right and left but you're losing out on
so many more deals because your turnover
is through the roof
and the reason your turnover is through
the roof is because you have a
prestigious name people come here
and
the the nice ones leave like the team
players leave and then you're left with
a bunch of sharks and that's why you get
like problems at the lowest levels the
middle levels and hard level it's a
shark culture
so over time you know i'm not saying you
have to leave your job now
but i think you can definitely maneuver
to dismantle this person if you really
want to
and also if the dismantling doesn't work
you move to a place where there are
other people who are more like empathic
and supportive
make sense
you